67

but with negative results. Not only so, it is asserted
that the notes are of such an exclusive character, so
uncommon in phrase and suggestion, that all English
literature will be vainly searched to find them as we
find them in the pages of Shakespeare.

It is a very pretty theory3 but pity ’tis‚ ’tis not
true. Bacon does use his notes in his acknowledged
works3 they are not used in the same way in Shake-
speare3 they are, contrary to the Baconian assertion,
mostly common-places in all English literature up
to the end of the seventeenth century; and they are
more frequently alluded to in Ben Jonson than in
Shakespeare.

Before I enter into a minute examination of the
Bacon notes, I wish to draw special attention to the
assertion that Bacon used the notes in the plays, but
not in his acknowledged works. Does any reasonable
being think that a man could so order his thoughts as
to divide himself, as it were, in that way—to scatter
through the plays, as one writer has it, allusions to
his notes “as thick as grains of wheat through the
surface of a fresh-sown field,” and to ignore thern
so completely in his acknowledged work as to defy
discovery of allusions to them? It will be my busi-
ness to show that the Baconians have tried to prove
too much, and that a further course of their master
is a matter of urgent necessity.

The

Bacen-
S hakespeare

Question.

